Added DataGrid Search feature (#771)
telerik/maui-docs: controls/datagrid/search-as-you-type.md

<snippet id='datagrid-search-highlighting-xaml' />

**2.** Add the corresponding `DataGridTextCellStyle` and `MyCellDecorationStyle` to the page's resources:

<snippet id='datagrid-search-highlighting-styles' />

![Telerik .NET MAUI DataGrid Search Highlighting](images/datagrid-search-highlight.png)

## Events

To further customize the Search as You Type functionality, use the `SearchStarting` event&mdash;Raised before searching starts. The effective search text can be changed, for example trimmed, divided into separate search terms, and searching can be cancelled from the arguments of the event:

* The sender argument, which is of type `object`, but can be cast to the `RadDataGrid` type.
* A `DataGridSearchStartingEventArgs` object, which provides:
     * `SearchTerms`(`IList<string>`)&mdash;The different search terms that should be searched for.
     * `SearchTermsLogicalOperator`(`LogicalOperator`)&mdash;The logical operator that is used when more than one search term is searched for.
     * `Cancel`(`bool`)&mdash;Indicates whether to cancel the search.

> Here is an example on how you can utilize `SearchStarting` to modify the way the search is performed - for example, divide the search text in separate search terms and search for all of them using "Or" operator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of how you can utilize `SearchStarting` to modify the way the search is performed—for example, divide the search text into separate search terms and search for all of them using the OR operator:
```

---
title: Search as You Type
page_title: .NET MAUI DataGrid Documentation - Search as You Type

> description: "Learn more about the search as you type feature of the Telerik .NET MAUI DataGrid - how to show/hide the search panel, various configuration settings of the search functionality, methods and events related to searching."

Reviewer: * A well-thought-out description
* You may consider capitalizing the name of the feature as this will make it easier to identify.
```suggestion
description: "Learn more about the Search as You Type feature of the Telerik .NET MAUI DataGrid - how to show or hide the search panel, various configuration settings of the search functionality, methods, and events related to searching."
```

position: 3
slug: datagrid-search-as-you-type
---

# .NET MAUI DataGrid Search as You Type

Telerik .NET MAUI DataGrid provides the ability to search for specific data within its ItemsSource by using its built-in search funcionality. The default behavior is to search as you type, but it can also be performed when the end user finishes typing and presses Enter.

> Through the DataGrid's `SearchSettings` property you can control when to show the search panel as well as configure the way the search is performed, so it best suits the end users' needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Through the DataGrid's `SearchSettings` property, you can control when to show the search panel as well as configure the way the search is performed so that it best suits the end users' needs.
```

> ### Show/Hide the Search Panel

Reviewer: Don't skip heading levels. All headings that follow must be H2.
```suggestion
## Show or Hide the Search Panel
```

> The DataGrid's `SearchSettings` exposes  a `SearchPanelVisibilityMode` property which controls when the search panel will appear, here are the available options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `SearchSettings` of the DataGrid expose a `SearchPanelVisibilityMode` property, which controls when the search panel will appear. Here are the available options:
```

> * `NeverVisible`&mdash;the search panel never appears.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `NeverVisible`&mdash;The search panel never appears.
```

> * `ControlledByUser`&mdash;the search panel becomes visible after a user's interaction (pressing Control / Command +F in Windows / MacOS respectively) and its close button is also visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `ControlledByUser`&mdash;The search panel becomes visible after a user's interaction (pressing `Ctrl + F` on Windows or `Cmd+F` on Mac), and its Close button is also visible.
```

> * `AlwaysVisible`&mdash;the search panel is always visible and its close button is not visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `AlwaysVisible`&mdash;The search panel is always visible and its Close button is not visible.
```

> ### Search Panel UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Search Panel UI
```

> The search panel provides an entry where the end user can enter the search terms, and also some search options to choose from, such as whether to match the case, whether to filter the results. The additional search settings can be accessed by the Options button (the tree dots) next to the entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The search panel provides an input field (Entry) where the end user can enter the search terms, and also some search options to choose from, such as whether to match the case, or whether to filter the results. The user can access the additional search settings through the Options button (the three dots) next to the Entry.
```

> You can check how the Search Panel UI looks on Windows at the image below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The image below shows the Search Panel UI on Windows:
```

![Telerik .NET MAUI DataGrid Search Panel](images/datagrid-search-searchpanel.png)

> ### Search Settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Search Settings
```

> The default searching behavior works in the following way - all the words divided by space are trimmed from the search text and searched by according to the `LogicalOperator` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default searching behavior works in the following way: all words divided by space are trimmed from the search text and searched by according to the `LogicalOperator` property.
```

> Below you can find a list of the available configuration options applied through the `RadDataGrid`.`SearchSettings`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below you can find a list of the available configuration options applied through the `RadDataGrid.SearchSettings`:
```

> * `IntermediateSearchText`(`string`)&mdash;Specifies the text of the search entry. Change of this value will not necessarily trigger a search, i.e. it will not necessarily change the `SearchText` property. The `SearchText` property is updated in accordance `SearchTrigger` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `IntermediateSearchText`(`string`)&mdash;Specifies the text of the search entry. A change of this value will not necessarily trigger a search, for example,. it will not necessarily change the `SearchText` property. The `SearchText` property is updated in accordance with the `SearchTrigger` property.
```

> * `SearchText`(`string`)&mdash;the search text. Before a search is started, this value is trimmed, and the `SearchStarting` event is raised. `SearchStarting` event allows to change the effective search text that will be used for searching.

Reviewer: Try to use the same style in the descriptions. In this list, always start with a verb after the `&mdash;`.
```suggestion
* `SearchText`(`string`)&mdash;Specifies the search text. Before a search is started, this value is trimmed, and the `SearchStarting` event is raised. The `SearchStarting` event allows for a change in the effective search text that will be used for searching.
```

> * `SearchTrigger`(`DataGridSearchTrigger`)&mdash;Indicates when a search operation should be performed while the end user is typing in the search entry of the search panel. Available options are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `SearchTrigger`(`DataGridSearchTrigger`)&mdash;Indicates when a search operation will be performed while the end user is typing in the search entry of the search panel. The available options are:
```

>     * `TextChanged`&mdash;a search operation is triggered every time the text of the entry changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `TextChanged`&mdash;The search operation is triggered every time the text of the entry changes.
```

>     * `Completed`&mdash;a search operation is triggered when the corresponding entry completes (by pressing Enter/Return key).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `Completed`&mdash;The search operation is triggered when the corresponding entry completes (by pressing `Enter` or `Return` key).
```

> * `TextMatchMode`(`DataGridSearchTextMatchMode`)&mdash;Indicates how a search term should be searched for within a text. Available options are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `TextMatchMode`(`DataGridSearchTextMatchMode`)&mdash;Indicates how a search term will be used to find a match within the text. The available options are:
```

>     * `Contains`&mdash;an item is marked as a search-match as long as the search text is contained anywhere in the text element (cell or other).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `Contains`&mdash;An item is marked as a search-match as long as the search text is found anywhere in the text element (cell or other).
```

>     * `StartsWith`&mdash;an item is marked as a search-match only if the text of the text element (cell or other) contains a word that starts with the search text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `StartsWith`&mdash;An item is marked as a search-match only if the text of the text element (cell or other) contains a word that starts with the search text.
```

>     * `WholeWord`&mdash;an item is marked as a search-match only if the text of the text element (cell or other) contains a word that matches the search text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `WholeWord`&mdash;An item is marked as a search-match only if the text of the text element (cell or other) contains a word that matches the search text.
```

* `LogicalOperator`(`Telerik.Maui.LogicalOperator`)&mdash;Specifies the logical operator when the search text is comprised of more than one search term.
* `CaseSensitive`(`bool`)&mdash;Indicates whether string comparison should be case sensitive.

> * `ApplyFilter`(`bool`)&mdash; Determines whether business items that do not satisfy the search criteria should be filtered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `ApplyFilter`(`bool`)&mdash; Determines whether business items that do not satisfy the search criteria are filtered.
```

* `SearchMatchesCount`(`int`)&mdash;Gets the number of search matches.
* `ProvideSearchMatchesAction`(`Action<DataGridSearchProbe>`)&mdash;Applies custom action that is invoked when determining the search matches for an item. Use this action when you need to specify search matches based on custom logic.

> ### Events

Reviewer: * Try adding some context.
* Move the event out of the list as we generally don't use single-item lists.
```suggestion
## Events

To further customize the Search as You Type functionality, use the `SearchStarting` event&mdash;Raised before searching starts. The effective search text can be changed and searching can be cancelled from the arguments of the event:
```

> * `SearchStarting`&mdash;Raised before searching starts. The effective search text can be changed and searching can be cancelled from the arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    * The sender argument, which is of type `object`, but can be cast to the `RadDataGrid` type.

>     * A `DataGridSearchStartingEventArgs` object which provides `SearchText` - the text that will be used for searching and `Cancel` - indicates whether to cancel the search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A `DataGridSearchStartingEventArgs` object, which provides:
     * `SearchText`—The text that will be used for searching.
     * `Cancel`—Indicates whether to cancel the search.
```

> ### Commands

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Commands
```

> 

Reviewer: Could you add some context before listing the commands?

> * `CloseSearchPanelCommand`&mdash;Called when pressing the close button in the search panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `CloseSearchPanelCommand`&mdash;Called when pressing the Close button in the search panel.
```

* `SearchEntryCompletedCommand`&mdash;Called when the `Completed` event of the search entry in the search panel is raised.

> ### Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example
```
